---
title: What I learned from Women Unite Over CTF
---

Earlier this month, I participated in the Women Unite Over CTF event hosted by Point3 Security. This was the shortest CTF I've done so far - it only lasted 12 hours. I had a lot of fun solving challenges and finished in 10th place!

The ESCALATE platform is still in use, so I won't talk about any of the challenge details. Instead, I'll go over what I learned and where I can do better next time.

## What I Learned

### Working with MITRE ATT&CK

Some of my favorite challenges from this CTF were in the network forensics category. The basic idea is that you're given a suspicious packet capture and you have to dig in and figure out what's happening.

One of the challenges I struggled with involved analyzing a packet capture to figure out how data was being exfiltrated. I tried a few different approaches, but nothing was working. I had identified some suspicious traffic, but I was still missing something. Eventually I remembered MITRE ATT&CK - a database of adversary tactics and techniques. It was exactly the spark I needed to figure out the challenge. I found information on how adversaries have used that protocol to exfiltrate data. With that, I was able to find the flag!

MITRE ATT&CK is one of the things I've learned about as I study for the Security+. It's a great resource, so I'll definitely keep it in mind for future CTFs.

### Digging deep into protocols

I enjoy forensics challenges because I get to search for patterns in the smallest of details. During this CTF, I spent some time digging deep into ICMP to learn how it worked. Wireshark is great for displaying data, but the original RFCs are good resources too. Being able to reference the packet structure helped me a lot.

### New tools

There were several fantastic reverse engineering workshops during the CTF. Reverse engineering is probably the area I'm least familiar with, so it was great to get some hands-on practice. I learned the basics of using Binary Ninja and spent a lot of time working with GDB.

One of the presentations was an introduction to using [CyberChef](https://github.com/gchq/CyberChef), a tool for working with data in all its forms. This is a great tool that I hadn't seen before. It certainly made it easier to deal with encoded data.

## For Next Time

### Learn about more complex web exploits

I know the basic concepts of web exploits, but being able to actually execute them will take some practice. I wasn't able to solve the web challenge in time, but now I know what I need to focus on. Learning the basics of PHP should help a lot.

### Scripting with Wireshark

As I mentioned before, the network forensics challenges were my favorite from this CTF. I would analyze the traffic, identify any suspicious data, and then see what it decoded to. It's a great system when the packet capture is relatively small. However, copying & pasting data into another file for analysis gets tedious pretty quickly.

I started wondering about how I could write scripts for Wireshark to extract the data I wanted. A brief search revealed that Wireshark can be scripted with Lua. This seems promising, so I've added it to my list of things to learn.

## In conclusion...

I'm grateful to Point3 Security and all of the fantastic organizations involved for running this CTF. I learned some new tools and tricks, and I'm excited to sharpen my skills for the next CTF.